Final Submission

Preface:

Before this project started I was unaware of what technologies I would be using.  I am a Linux user, and found despite being able to run my own ASP projects from my computer that the one from the repo was not going to run without a fight.  So instead of wasting time on a problem that could potentially be a very difficult solve, I hooked up an old HD I had laying around, installed an unactivated copy of Windows from an old flash drive (don’t sue me, Bill!) and downloaded Visual Studio.  Although I’ve used Windows my whole life outside of the last year, Visual Studio was brand new.  I waited for Windows to update and installed all of my drivers, all of which took a few hours.

From there I got to work.  I detailed that process below, but in all I probably spent 20+ hours on this.  Most of it beared no obvious fruit to the project or your tasks and was either me reading documentation or watching YouTube videos, experimenting with random things to get a feel for the project, and just trying to fix things I had intentionally or unintentionally broken.  Looking back at what you asked, it feels like it took a long time to fulfill your seemingly simple requests.  But I wasn’t going to stop until those four tasks were done, even if I had to finish it on my own after the two days allotted.  Also I spent a lot of time trying to eliminate any JavaScript from the project, but to no avail.  I take great pleasure in writing clean, loosely-coupled code that follows proper MVC procedure, and am by no means completely satisfied with all of my solutions.

I’m saying all this only to convey one message: That’s the person you will get if you hire me.  I am a person with an extremely strong work ethic, and I don’t get intimidated or overwhelmed when working with something unfamiliar, even when there may be external pressure or deadlines.  At the risk of sounding braggadocious I am able to identify patterns and similarities quickly, and was surprised at how easily I was able to understand this project within a couple of days despite having such limited experience with it.  I know that if I had a little more time and a team of people to ask occasional questions that I would have been able to come up with the ideal “Blazor solution” in even shorter time.

What I did

Forking and cloning the repo to my computer was pretty straight forward.  I had no prior experience with Blazor WebAssembly or a project with this structure.  It admittedly took a while to acclimate myself to it, eventually finding out where everything is located and how it functioned.
I added a subtitle field underneath each name by simply searching for the instances in the project where either Name or DisplayName was used.  I then updated each model, view and controller as-needed to do so.  I did this with the Admin screen as well, but I had issues getting my Admin screen to show any objects at all, even from the initial cloning.  I went ahead and filled out the code for everything the best I could..
This one was tricky to me, if only because I couldn’t and can’t figure out how to do this using the technologies given.  With JavaScript it is very easy to reload a page using “document.form.submit()”, but even after an extensive internet search I couldn’t find any built in Blazor/ASP functions that would let me do this.  I thought adding an “asp-page-handler” element to the input tag (similar to the one found in the Basket Index form) would do this, but after some trial and error it would not.  Ultimately I just attached a line of JS script to the select tag that runs a one-line function to submit the document.  I don’t like this solution, but I could not figure out how to submit the form otherwise.
This problem presented me with the same issues as #3.  I couldn’t find the ability to modify a value (like “model.Quantity”) once it had been passed to the form and submitted, so I needed to create an array/list of integers from each basket item that would hold their quantity.  I created a “remove”  button that changed this array value to zero, passed it through the already-existing quantity select tag and submitted the page.  I know I could have done this multiple ways, and I wouldn’t ideally put a lot of function in the front-side of my page like this.  But since the functionality to do what you asked was already built-in (I could not find the quantity setter function to do this through the controller/back-end, but I would rather do it using that method), I went with it.  Oddly enough I needed to use the afore-mentioned “asp-page-handler” element on my input tag instead of using a “document.form.submit()”.  Also this solution took one line of JavaScript to change the values in a given selected input to zero before submitting.
I didn’t have time at all to complete the bonus activities due to prior engagements and I apologize.

What I learned

I definitely learned a lot on this exercise.  Without having any prior knowledge in Blazor WebAssembly I was thrown for a loop at first, only to pick up on it more and more with every hour.  A lot of what I learned involved ASP.NET as well, and seeing how it differs from Spring Boot.  The arrangement of the project was one I had not seen before, and I learned a lot about navigating larger solutions.  I also learned as an overall experience I really like using C# and ASP.NET.  I found despite being inept at first that it presented itself in a way that let me learn easily.  I’m honestly finding myself wanting to have just a little while longer to try this or that (like why I had to reload the page two separate ways is driving me a bit crazy as I type this).

Next Steps

From here I think I just need to keep learning about ASP.NET as much as possible.  I understand a lot of the generic concepts behind it, but situationally I found the specific features and code unfamiliar.  I also have been wanting to make a game using Unity/C# and after this I can’t wait.  Working with Visual Studio and this stack was, despite my prior experience with it, enjoyable and ultimately left me wanting more.  Although Blazor was also enjoyable I did find myself missing React or Angular, if only because I was more familiar with them.

Questions

I really don’t understand how Blazor reacts with the DOM and handles control inversion.  The idea that I had to submit/update the index and basket index two different ways confuses me, and for a large portion of this project I found myself wondering how to do things the same way I would in React or even vanilla JS.  I can say that my experience in Java/Spring Boot made figuring out C# and ASP.NET much easier, but it also left me frequently questioning what the ASP equivalent to a certain Spring Boot annotation was.
